force-app/main/default/staticresources/documentation/docs/docs/QueueableRecipes.md, before:

---
layout: default
---
# QueueableRecipes class

This class demonstrates how to construct a Queueable class. The methods in this class are run automatically by the system as the job runs. To enqueue this job, use: `System.enqueueJob(new QueueableRecipes());` More on the Queable interface: https://sfdc.co/queueable-apex

---
## Methods
### `execute(QueueableContext qc)` → `void`

This is the only required method to implement Queueable. In our case, it&apos;s simply updating account names, but this execute method can be used to execute any asynchronous code. Queueable classes run asynchronously much like @future annotated code. However, because they&apos;re implementing an interface they can be constructed, and thus accept full objects, not just primitives. Crucially, Queueable classes can also _enqueue_ other Queueable classes. See QueueableChainingRecipes for more details.

#### Parameters

| Param | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
|`qc` |  dependency injected by the system |

#### Example
```java
System.enqueueJob(new QueueableRecipes());
```

---

Commit message:

feat: upgraded apex docs (#445)
* feat: upgraded apex docs

* ci: fix condition

* ci: fix condition

* ci: fix condition

* ci: fix condition

* ci: fix condition

force-app/main/default/staticresources/documentation/docs/docs/QueueableRecipes.md, after:

---
layout: default
---
# QueueableRecipes

This class demonstrates how to construct a Queueable class.
The methods in this class are run automatically by the system
as the job runs. To enqueue this job, use: `System.enqueueJob(new QueueableRecipes());`
More on the Queable interface:
https://sfdc.co/queueable-apex


**Implemented types**

[Queueable](Queueable)


**Group** Async Apex Recipes

## Methods
### `public static execute(QueueableContext qc)`

This is the only required method to implement Queueable. In our case, it's simply updating account names, but this execute method can be used to execute any asynchronous code. Queueable classes run asynchronously much like &commat;future annotated code. However, because they're implementing an interface they can be constructed, and thus accept full objects, not just primitives. Crucially, Queueable classes can also _enqueue_ other Queueable classes. See QueueableChainingRecipes for more details.

#### Parameters

|Param|Description|
|---|---|
|`qc`|dependency injected by the system|

#### Example
```apex
System.enqueueJob(new QueueableRecipes());
```


---
