force-app/main/default/staticresources/documentation/docs/docs/QuiddityGuard.md, before:

---
layout: default
---
# QuiddityGuard class

contains methods and static lists for rapid acceptence of a particular set of quiddities

---
## Properties

### `testQuiddityOverride` → `Quiddity`

a private testvisible variable allowing developers to inject a custom quiddity value during test execution.

### `trustedQuiddities` → `List<Quiddity>`

a non-exhaustive list of Quiddities that do not include user situations where users could be injecting malicious data.

### `untrustedQuiddities` → `List<Quiddity>`

A list of quiddities that may include user-defined data and therefore should not be trusted without manual FLS/CRUD checks

---
## Methods
### `isAcceptableQuiddity(List<Quiddity> acceptableQuiddites)` → `Boolean`

A method to determine if the current Quiddity context is within a caller-supplied list of acceptable quiddity values.

#### Parameters
|Param|Description|
|-----|-----------|
|`acceptableQuiddites` |  A list of quiddities to check against |

#### Return

**Type**

Boolean

**Description**

`boolean`

---

Commit message:

codelive/trygger (#121)
* one Trigger to rule them all

* adding comments

* new metadata mdt for disabled_for

* Updated metadata trigger to use UserInfo.getUsername()

and a big comment.

* adds additional triggers to the metadata chain

Also makes minor tweaks to who controls the metadata.
additional comments.

* Released new package version 04t3g000000kiK0AAI (#83)

Co-authored-by: github-actions[bot] <41898282+github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

* updating tests.

* renames userEmail to User_Email

* work commit

* Final testing for Stubb Backed Metadata

Driven Triggers.

* forcing commit

* Renaming method to remove _

* supression of warning in test double
removing package.json link to sfdx-cli

* updating package-lock.json

* updated docs, pretier run.

* renaming class

* updated docs

* fixing test that broke when I renamed the class

Co-authored-by: Trailheadapps Bot <69584871+trailheadapps-bot@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: github-actions[bot] <41898282+github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Philippe Ozil <5071767+pozil@users.noreply.github.com>

force-app/main/default/staticresources/documentation/docs/docs/QuiddityGuard.md, after:

---
layout: default
---
# QuiddityGuard class

contains methods and static lists for rapid acceptence of a particular set of quiddities

---
## Properties

### `testQuiddityOverride` → `Quiddity`

a private testvisible variable allowing developers to inject a custom quiddity value during test execution.

### `trustedQuiddities` → `List<Quiddity>`

a non-exhaustive list of Quiddities that do not include user situations where users could be injecting malicious data.

### `trustedTestQuiddities` → `List<Quiddity>`

An exaustive list of quiddities that are valid for a test execution

### `untrustedQuiddities` → `List<Quiddity>`

A list of quiddities that may include user-defined data and therefore should not be trusted without manual FLS/CRUD checks

---
## Methods
### `isAcceptableQuiddity(List<Quiddity> acceptableQuiddites)` → `Boolean`

A method to determine if the current Quiddity context is within a caller-supplied list of acceptable quiddity values.

#### Parameters
|Param|Description|
|-----|-----------|
|`acceptableQuiddites` |  A list of quiddities to check against |

#### Return

**Type**

Boolean

**Description**

`boolean`

### `isNotAcceptableQuiddity(List<Quiddity> acceptableQuiddites)` → `Boolean`
---
